#summary About the IAB Video Advertising Standards
#sidebar TableOfContents

The Digital Video Committee of the Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB) is comprised of over 180 members dedicated to the
creation and execution of digital video advertising. One of the goals of the committee is to implement a comprehensive
set of guidelines, measurement and creative options for interactive video advertising. 

A series of standards and guidelines have come out of the committee's work. Two key standards for the OpenX
video advertising plugin are:
  * The Video Ad Serving Template ([http://www.iab.net/iab_products_and_industry_services/508676/508950/vast VAST]) standard
  * The Video Player-Ad Interface definition ([http://www.iab.net/iab_products_and_industry_services/508676/508950/vpaid VPAID])

At this time, the plugin supports the VAST standard. Work is underway to extend the plugin to support the VPAID standard that is essential to
support "video player to video ad" communication in an open, standards compliant manner.

Two main types of Video Advertising are supported by the VAST standard:
  * Linear video advertising
  * Non-Linear video advertising

Linear Video advertising is either video (15, 30 second etc.) or interactive (flash) based advertising. Linear video advertising can be 
scheduled to occur before (pre), during (mid) or after (post) the main video stream.

Non-linear video advertising occurs during the playback of a video stream. Non-linear video advertising can take two forms - either overlay
(displays within the player screen) or non-overlay (which displays in the immediate vacinity around the player screen)

All forms of video advertising may support companion banners that are display ads shown on the web page around the player.

The IAB has published a set of [http://www.iab.net/iab_products_and_industry_services/508676/508950/DV_Guidelines guidelines and best practices] for Video Advertising that illustrate the various types of 
video advertising and how they are best deployed. It's worth reading this guideline to visualise the type of advertising that the 
OpenX Video Advertising plugin supports out of the box.

For detailed information on the work of the committee, and the VAST standard please refer 
to [http://www.iab.net/vast www.iab.net/vast]