#summary An Overview of the Flowplayer Open Ad Streamer Design and Implementation
#sidebar TableOfContents

This document steps through the design and implementation of the Flowplayer Open Ad Streamer.

==Download the Code==

If you haven't downloaded the source code, do so [http://open-video-ads.googlecode.com/files/openvideoads.flowplayer.openadstreamer-0.2.1.tar.gz now]. We also recommend that you download the [http://open-video-ads.googlecode.com/files/openvideoads.vast.as3.tar.gz VAST AS3 Framework code] as this isn't packaged by default with the plug-in source. You'll need to refer to both as we step through the implementation.

==Check out the Examples==

Before stepping through the detailed design of the Flowplayer Open Ad Streamer it's worth taking the time to review the  [http://www.bouncingminds.com/plugins/flowplayer/openvideoads/openadstreamer/latest/examples/index.html 30 odd examples] that have been created to show how the Ad Streamer can be configured.

Each of these examples explores a different area of behavior for both the Ad Streamer and the VAST AS3 Framework. 

==A Bit About Flowplayer==

The Flowplayer Open Ad Streamer relies on Flowplayer 3.1.3 or greater. The implementation makes use of the new Flowplayer instream API to add mid-roll video ads mid-stream. 

There are several key features of Flowplayer that need to be considered when finalising a design to integrate the VAST AS3 Framework to deliver video advertising:

  # Flowplayer provides a specific API to manage 'time-based' events in the player. This API is known as the Cuepoint API. It allows a plugin to set a specifically labeled cuepoint event to occur at a nominated point in time. This API is perfectly crafted for use by the framework to help track the progress of video advertising as it is played. For more information on this API, please refer to this [http://www.flowplayer.org/documentation/api/clip.html#cuepoints flowplayer documentation].
  # The second key feature of Flowplayer is it's "instream" API. This API allows "child" streams to be inserted to play at a specific point within a parent clip. This API is perfect to support the delivery of mid-roll and non-linear (overlay) 'click to play a video' advertising. For more information on this API, please refer to this [http://www.flowplayer.org/demos/configuration/instream-playlist.html flowplayer documentation].
  # Finally, Flowplayer provides a good clip management API that allows a plugin to build up and management a specific playlist. This API is well suited to use by the framework to build up a sequence of advertising and show clips to play sequentially in the player. For more information on this API, please refer to this [http://www.flowplayer.org/apidoc/flowplayer documentation].

All three API features influence the design and implementation of our Flowplayer Open Ad Streamer.

==Key Design Considerations==

When integrating the VAST AS3 Framework to create an Ad Streamer a number of important questions must be asked:

  # *Tracking Time*: How is the player going to notify the framework about changes to the stream timeline and how does it track that time - relative to the clip or the playlist? Will it send new time updates at a certain frequency or does it prefer to have specific time based events registered so that it can notify when the time has been hit? (for example, if we need to know when the stream is half way through, does the player prefer to tell us every 1/10th of second the latest time or does it prefer to notify the framework only at the time the stream is half way through?). In the case of Flowplayer it prefers to have time based events registered via the Cuepoint API whereas JW Player notifies every 10th of a second. In both cases, all time is reported relative to the start of the active clip (so when a new stream starts playing, time is reset to 0)
  # *Managing the Control Bar*: How does the player manage the control bar - for video advertising the seeker (timeline) needs to be disabled when video ads play - we need to know how to do that so that the appropriate code can be implemented when the framework notifies our new ad streamer when an ad starts or ends.
  # *Recognising User Inputs*: How does the player recognise when fullscreen has been activated, mute, start, stop, pause etc.? When these events occur, the VAST Framework needs to be notified so that it can log the event accordingly.
  # *Displaying Non-Linear Advertising*: How do you want to handle the display of overlay advertising? The VAST Framework can handle it, but it needs to be given a handle to an appropriate DisplayContainer for the player so that the overlay Sprites can be created, added and shown when required.
  # *Managing the Playlist*: Ultimately the goal of an Ad Streamer implementation is to manage the sequencing of video ads with show streams in such a way that the Player knows how to play the sequence. How does the player prefer to handle the sequencing of such a playlist? Does it prefer to deal with the resulting sequence as a playlist of a specific format (e.g. in the case of the JW Player Ad Streamer an XSPF Playlist which can just be read directly into the player via it's playlist load API, or in Flowplayer's case, the Playlist object in the player can be directly configured via the Playlist AS API)
  # *Managing the Streaming Providers*: How are the streaming protocol providers handled by the player?. For instance, how is RTMP supported by the player? Does a separate RTMP plugin have to be loaded or is it automatically available to the player?

All of these questions require careful consideration before finalizing the implementation approach for the Ad Streamer.

In the case of Flowplayer, the answers are as follows:

  # *Tracking time*: we will use the Flowplayer Cuepoint API and time is tracked relative to the Clip
  # *Managing the control bar*: using the plugin API to gain access to the control bar plugin
  # *Recognizing user inputs*: We are using the Flowplayer.on....() API (e.g. onMute(), onFullscreen() etc.) to identify when user input event occur
  # *Displaying Non-Linear Advertising*: We will rely on the VAST Framework to do that, and we'll provide a handle to the Flowplayer DisplayContainer and a set of DisplayProperties that inform the framework about the dimensions of the player
  # *Managing stream sequencing*: We will do that directly via the Flowplayer Playlist and instream() API
  # *Managing providers*: We will check for and load the appropriate streaming providers as required/specified by the ad streamer configuration

==High Level Design==

The following diagram illustrates the high level process that the Flowplayer Open Ad Streamer implements:

{insert diagram here}


==The Code==


===Example Configuration===

For the code walkthrough we will use [http://www.bouncingminds.com/plugins/flowplayer/openvideoads/openadstreamer/latest/examples/http-example03.html HTTP example 03] - a simple configuration that delivers a pre-roll ad before a show stream and then an overlay 5 seconds into the show stream that supports a "click to start a video ad".

The configuration for example03 is as follows:

{{{
flowplayer("a.example", "../dist/flowplayer-3.1.3-dev.swf", {
    plugins: {
        controls: {
            autoHide: "always"
        },

        openAdStreamer: {
            url: '../dist/OpenAdStreamer.swf',

            "deliveryType": "progressive",

            "shows": {
                 "streams": [  
                      { 
                          "file":"http://static.bouncingminds.com/shows/bbb_640x360.mp4", 
                          "duration":"00:00:30" 
                      } 
                 ]
            },

            "overlays": {
                 "regions": [
                      {
                           "id": "bottom",
                           "verticalAlign": "bottom",
                           "horizontalAlign": "center",
                           "backgroundColor": "#000000",
                           "width": 300,
                           "height": 40
                      }
                 ]
            },

            "ads": {
                 "server": {
                      "type": "OpenX",
                      "vastURL": "http://openx.bouncingminds.com/openx/www/delivery/fc.php"
                 },
                 "schedule": [
                      {
                           "zone": "5",
                           "position": "pre-roll"
                      },
                      {
                           "zone": "12",
                           "position": "bottom",
                           "width": 600,
                           "height": 40,
                           "startTime": "00:00:05",
                           "duration": "15"
                      }
                  ],
              },

              "debug": {
                  "levels": "all",
                  "debugger": "firebug"
              }
         }
    }
});
}}}

You will see in this configuration that we've declared our OpenAdStreamer plugin to Flowplayer and stated that the Control Bar is always to be hidden in the player (unless moused over).

The configuration for the OpenAdStreamer instance declares:

  * Our ad server is "OpenX" and is addressable on the "vastServerURL" specified
  * One stream to play - a HTTP stream for 30 seconds (http://static.bouncingminds.com/shows/bbb_640x360.mp4)
  * One pre-roll ad to play - identified as "zone 5" in our OpenX ad server instance
  * One region to be used for the display of overlay advertising - identified as region "bottom"
  * The overlay ad is to start 5 seconds into the show stream and last for 15 seconds
  * We will be using the Firebug console to view debug information and "all" debug messages are to be output

For a detailed description of all of the configuration parameters permitted by the Flowplayer Open Ad Streamer (and the VAST Framework), please refer to the [http://code.google.com/p/open-video-ads/wiki/OASConfiguration Configuration Guide].

===Initialising the Framework===

The first step to be taken to integrate the VAST framework is to instantiate it and configure the baseline operating condititions.

The framework has a master class known as the `VASTController`. To integrate the framework, an instance of this class must be instantiated and configured. Once complete, access to the framework is controlled through this class. The bulk of the public API for the framework is implemented by the `VASTController`.

The following code snippet has been taken from the Flowplayer Open Ad Streamer to illustrate how it fires up the VAST framework via the `VASTController`:

{{{
    // Load up the config and configure the framework
    _vastController = new VASTController();
    _vastController.setTimeBaseline(VASTController.RELATIVE_TO_CLIP);
    _vastController.trackStreamSlices = false;
    _vastController.startStreamSafetyMargin = 300; // needed because cuepoints at 0 for FLVs don't fire
    _vastController.initialise((new PropertyBinder(new Config(), null).copyProperties(_model.config) as Config));
    doLog("Flowplayer Open Video Ad Streamer constructed - build 0.1.1.1", Debuggable.DEBUG_ALL);
}}}

There are 4 separate calls made to get the framework up and into a working state:

  # `setTimeBaseline()` - this call tells the framework that time is measured relative to each clip playing. This means that when a new clip starts, the time that the player reports on the timeline is reset to 0 so all tracking events in the framework should be set relative to the clip being played.
  # `trackStreamSlices` - this is a slightly more complicated call and it relates specifically to how mid-roll ads are to be treated by the player - for Flowplayer it is set to `false` which means that the player is not interested in treating a stream "sliced" up by mid-roll ads as individual stream segments. Rather, it will view the show stream as one entire stream. This is possible because Flowplayer supports an API that allows streams to be inserted and played mid-stream without impacting the underlying parent stream. JW Player on the other hand does not support this type of API so the only way that a mid-roll ad can be accommodated is to physically slice a show stream into the part to play before the mid-roll ad and then the part after the mid-roll ad. If you look at the JW Player Open Ad Streamer initialisation code, you will see that `trackStreamSlices=true`
  # `startStreamSafetyMargin` is a call that allows the framework to treat timing events that are to occur at the start of a stream a little differently by offsetting the start time by the "milliseconds" value specified as `startStreamSafetyMargin`. For example, when an ad stream starts, the `started` tracking event is to be fired and subsequently recorded by the ad server. There are circumstances where time based events fired at a 0 point in time in the stream do not reliably fire because the player is busy starting up the stream. To be safe, those events are delayed for 300 milliseconds (in the case of the Flowplayer config above)
  # Finally then we get to the `initialise()` call - this is the call that allows the configuration data associated with the player and the framework to be read by the framework. Configuration data must always be passed to the `initialise()` call in the form of a well formed object. In the case of Flowplayer, the JSON configuration data can be placed directly into the `org.openvideoads.vast.config.Config` object (via the Flowplayer `PropertyBinder`). When the `VASTController` receives a `org.openvideoads.vast.config.Config` object it will just save it as is. If however it recieves a vanilla `Object`, it will interrogate that object to obtain the individual properties and will create a well formed `org.openvideoads.vast.config.Config` object as a result.

Once the `VASTController` receives the configuration data and has parsed it accordingly, it undertakes several vital steps required to prepare itself to make VAST Ad Server calls before processing the results into a readable form by the Video Player:

  # It constructs an `AdSchedule` based on the configuration data provided
  # It creates an instance of the appropriate Ad Server connection object so that it is ready to talk with the Ad Server when required 

The current version of the framework supports an Ad Server connection class for OpenX. An AdTech class is in the works along with a more generic VAST Router class that allows non VAST compliant ad servers to be bridged. 

===Constructing an `AdSchedule`===



===Make sure that the Streaming Providers are Loaded===

Once the VAST Framework is instantiated the next step taken is to ensure that the required "providers" are loaded. Flowplayer implements additional streaming providers (e.g. RTMP, secure RTMP, pseudo-streaming etc.) as separate provider plugins.

The following code asks the `VASTController` whether or not a provider definition for "rtmp" has been specified in the config - if it has then a call is made to ensure that the RTMP plugin is loaded before going any further.

{{{
    if(_vastController.hasProvider("rtmp")) {
         ensureProviderPluginLoaded("rtmp", "rtmp");
    }

    ..... 

    _player.loadPlugin(providerName, providerUrl, onProviderLoaded);
}}}

===Managing Player Events===

The next step in the initialisation process is to create the handlers to deal with user related events. 

When the player is playing users can:

  * Go fullscreen
  * Hit the mute button
  * Change the volume controls

If any of these actions are taken during an ad play, the VAST Framework needs to know that they have been occurred so that the appropriate ad tracking calls can be made.

The following code sets up the handlers for Flowplayer.

{{{
    // Setup the player tracking events
    _player.onFullscreen(onFullScreen);
    _player.onFullscreenExit(onFullScreenExit);
    _player.onMute(onMuteEvent);
    _player.onUnmute(onUnmuteEvent);
    _player.onVolume(onProcessVolumeEvent);  
}}}

If we look at the "fullscreen" handler `onFullScreen()`, we will see how the VAST framework is notified that the event has occurred.

{{{
    private function onFullScreen(playerEvent:PlayerEvent):void {
        if(_vastController != null) _vastController.onPlayerResize(_player.playlist.currentIndex);
    }
}}}

When the player goes "fullscreen", the `_vastController` is informed via the `onPlayerResize()` API. The current index of the stream must be passed into that call so that the VAST Controller knows which stream has been impacted by the fullscreen action.

For a complete description of the "Player Event" related `VASTController` APIs,  please refer to the [VASTAS3FrameworkPlayerEvents "Managing Player Events Guide"].

For a full account of the ad tracking supported by the VAST framework, refer to the [VASTAS3FrameworkAdTracking Ad Tracking Guide].

===Configure the Key Event Listeners===

The VAST framework notifies a player implementation of changes in the framework via the Actionscript Event dispatcher/listener mechanism.

Listeners can be identified for a range of events.

The following code snippet from the Flowplayer Open Ad Streamer illustrates how to register and listen for all of the events broadcast by the framework.

{{{
    // Setup the critical listeners for the template loading process
    _vastController.addEventListener(TemplateEvent.LOADED, onTemplateLoaded);
    _vastController.addEventListener(TemplateEvent.LOAD_FAILED, onTemplateLoadError);

    // Setup the linear ad listeners
    _vastController.addEventListener(LinearAdDisplayEvent.STARTED, onLinearAdStarted);
    _vastController.addEventListener(LinearAdDisplayEvent.COMPLETE, onLinearAdComplete); 
    _vastController.addEventListener(LinearAdDisplayEvent.CLICK_THROUGH, onLinearAdClickThrough);           
           
    // Setup the companion display listeners
    _vastController.addEventListener(CompanionAdDisplayEvent.DISPLAY, onDisplayCompanionAd);
    _vastController.addEventListener(CompanionAdDisplayEvent.HIDE, onHideCompanionAd);

    // Decide how to handle overlay displays - if through the framework, turn it on, otherwise register the event callbacks
    _vastController.enableNonLinearAdDisplay(new DisplayProperties(this, 640, 360, 25));
    _vastController.addEventListener(OverlayAdDisplayEvent.DISPLAY, onDisplayOverlay);
    _vastController.addEventListener(OverlayAdDisplayEvent.HIDE, onHideOverlay);
    _vastController.addEventListener(OverlayAdDisplayEvent.DISPLAY_NON_OVERLAY, onDisplayNonOverlay);
    _vastController.addEventListener(OverlayAdDisplayEvent.HIDE_NON_OVERLAY, onHideNonOverlay);
    _vastController.addEventListener(OverlayAdDisplayEvent.CLICKED, onOverlayClicked);
    _vastController.addEventListener(AdNoticeDisplayEvent.DISPLAY, onDisplayNotice);
    _vastController.addEventListener(AdNoticeDisplayEvent.HIDE, onHideNotice);
          
    // Setup the hander for tracking point set events
    _vastController.addEventListener(TrackingPointEvent.SET, onSetTrackingPoint);
    _vastController.addEventListener(TrackingPointEvent.FIRED, onTrackingPointFired);
            
    // Setup the hander for display events on the seeker bar
    _vastController.addEventListener(SeekerBarEvent.TOGGLE, onToggleSeekerBar);
            
    // Ok, let's load up the VAST data from our Ad Server - when the stream sequence is constructed, register for callbacks
    _vastController.addEventListener(StreamSchedulingEvent.SCHEDULE, onStreamSchedule);
    _vastController.addEventListener(NonLinearSchedulingEvent.SCHEDULE, onNonLinearSchedule);
}}}

Broadly speaking there are 5 categories of events:

  # Data loading events:
    * VAST data loading (`TemplateEvent`)
  # Ad display events:
    * Linear ad display events (`LinearAdDisplayEvent`)
    * Companion Ad display events (`CompanionAdEvent`)
    * Non-Linear Ad display events (`OverlayAdDisplayEvent`)
    * Ad Notice display events (`AdNoticeDisplayEvent`)
  # Ad and Stream Scheduling events
    * Stream scheduling events (`StreamSchedulingEvent`)
    * Non-linear ad (Overlay) scheduling events (`NonLinearSchedulingEvent')
  # Time tracking events
    * Tracking point events (`TrackingPointEvent`)
  # Player control events:
    * Control bar (seeker) action events (`SeekerBarEvent`)

For a detailed description of all event types, please refer to the "[VASTAS3FrameworkEventManagement Event Management Guide]".

The critical events for the Flowplayer Open Ad Streamer are:

  * The data loading events (`TemplateEvent.LOADED`) so that the plugin knows when the VAST data requested from the Ad Server has been successfully returned
  * The Ad and Stream scheduling events (`StreamSchedulingEvent.SCHEDULE` and `NonLinearSchedulingEvent.SCHEDULE`) because the plugin creates the player playlist based on notifications back from the framework that a stream is to be scheduled for playback
  * The companion ad display events as the Flowplayer plugin then facilitates the display of those companions in the page containing the player
  * Non-linear Ad display events (specifically `OverlayDisplayEvent.CLICKED`) so that the plugin can trigger an instream video ad to be played where required
  * Player control events (`SeekerBarEvent.TOGGLE`) to allow the scrubber bar to be enabled/disabled when linear ads are played


===Requesting a Video Ad Serving Template (VAST) from the Ad Server===

Once the VAST Framework has been instantiated and configured via the `VASTController`, a request can be made to obtain the Video Ad Serving Template (VAST) data from the VAST compliant ad server.

The following code snippet illustrates how that is done in the Flowplayer Open Ad Streamer:

{{{
    _vastController.load();	

    ....

    protected function onTemplateLoaded(event:TemplateEvent):void {
        doLogAndTrace("NOTIFICATION: VAST data loaded - ", event.template, Debuggable.DEBUG_FATAL);
        _player.playlist.replaceClips2(_clipList);
        _model.dispatchOnLoad();
    }
}}}

The call to the ad server is triggered via the `VASTController.load()` API. 

When called, the VASTController constructs a request for the specified Ad Server, fires it off to the ad server, waits for a response (which should be the VAST data), processes the response, constructs an object model representing the VAST ad data before calling back the Flowplayer Open Ad Streamer call via the method listening for the `TemplateEvent.LOADED` event.

A `VideoAdServingTemplate` can be obtained from the `TemplateEvent` via the `TemplateEvent.template` attribute.

In between constructing the original ad server request and the dispatch of the `TemplateEvent.LOADED` event, a lot of processing occurs within the VAST framework.

The three key activities undertaken by the framework during this period are:

  # The formation of the ad server request
  # The parsing of the VAST response to create a `VideoAdServingTemplate`
  # The construction of a `StreamSequence`
  # The dispatching and processing of Ad and Stream scheduling events



===Ad Tracking and Flowplayer Cuepoints===

{{{
    protected function processCuepoint(clipevent:ClipEvent):void {
        var cuepoint:Cuepoint = clipevent.info as Cuepoint;
        var streamIndex:int = parseInt(cuepoint.callbackId.substr(3));
        var eventCode:String = cuepoint.callbackId.substr(0,2);
        doLog("Cuepoint triggered " + clipevent.toString() + " - id: " + cuepoint.callbackId, Debuggable.DEBUG_CUEPOINT_EVENTS);
        _vastController.processTimeEvent(streamIndex, new TimeEvent(clipevent.info.time, 0, eventCode));            	            
    }
}}}


===Turning the Control Bar On and Off===

{{{
    private function setScrubber(turnOn:Boolean):void {
         var controlProps:org.flowplayer.model.DisplayProperties = _player.pluginRegistry.getPlugin("controls") as org.flowplayer.model.DisplayProperties;
         var controls:Controls = controlProps.getDisplayObject() as Controls;

         if(turnOn) {
             doLog("Turning the scrubber on", Debuggable.DEBUG_TRACKING_EVENTS);
             controls.enable({all: true, scrubber: true});		
         }	
         else {
             doLog("Turning the scrubber off", Debuggable.DEBUG_TRACKING_EVENTS);
             controls.enable({all: true, scrubber: false});		
         }
    }    
}}}

===Displaying Companion Ads===

{{{
    public function onDisplayCompanionAd(companionEvent:CompanionAdDisplayEvent):void {
        doLogAndTrace("NOTIFICATION: Event received to display companion ad", companionEvent, Debuggable.DEBUG_DISPLAY_EVENTS);
        _previousDivContent = new Array();
        if(companionEvent.contentIsHTML()) {
	    var previousContent:String = ExternalInterface.call("function(){ return document.getElementById('" + companionEvent.divID + "').innerHTML; }");
            _previousDivContent.push({ divId: companionEvent.divID, content: previousContent } );
            ExternalInterface.call("function(){ document.getElementById('" + companionEvent.divID + "').innerHTML='" + StringUtils.replaceSingleWithDoubleQuotes(companionEvent.content) + "'; }");
        }
        else {
             //TO IMPLEMENT isImage(), isFlash(), isText()
        }
    }
}}}

===Supporting Non-Linear (Overlay) 'Click to play a Video Ad'===

{{{
    public function onOverlayClicked(displayEvent:OverlayAdDisplayEvent):void {
        doLog("NOTIFICATION: Event received - overlay has been clicked!", Debuggable.DEBUG_DISPLAY_EVENTS);
        if(displayEvent.ad.hasAccompanyingVideoAd()) {

               // CODE IN HERE TO PROCESS INSTREAM VIDEO AD

        }
    }
}}}

===Ensuring a Linear Ad plays only once===