#summary November 4, 2009 Release Note
#sidebar TableOfContents

The November 4th release includes:

  * An updated Flowplayer OpenAdStreamer (v0.3.0)
  * An updated AS3 VAST Framework (v0.4.0)

The release includes a major upgrade to the way Ad Servers are configured and used by the VAST framework.

Previously Ad Servers were configured  within the OpenAdStreamer as followed:

{{{
            "ads": {
                "pauseOnClickThrough": true,
                "server": {
                    "type": "OpenX",
                    "vastURL": "http://openx.openvideoads.org/openx/www/delivery/fc.php"
                },
                "schedule": [
                    {
                        "zone": "5",
                        "position": "pre-roll"
                    }
                ]
            }
}}}

In this release, the "server" configuration item has been replaced with a "servers" configuration option that appears as follows:

{{{
            "ads": {
                "pauseOnClickThrough": true,
                "servers": [
                    {
                      "type": "OpenX",
                      "apiAddress": "http://openx.openvideoads.org/openx/www/delivery/fc.php"
                    }
                ],
                "schedule": [
                    {
                      "zone": "5",
                      "position": "pre-roll"
                    }
                ]
            }
}}}

Support for the AdTech Ad Server is now included out of the box. Worked examples have been included to illustrate how to configure the OAS to communicate with the AdTech Ad Server.

Any Ad Server can now be easily integrated into the framework.

The VAST XML Wrapper is also supported in this release. Worked examples have also been included that illustrate how the XML Wrapper works to chain ad server requests until the ad requirement is fulfilled.

Ad Server request can now be made per ad slot, or as a bunched set of requests. Ad Servers may be mixed and matched across the ad schedule. Examples have also been included to illustrate how to do this.

Finally, the codebase issued with this release has moved to an LGPL (Lesser GPL) license.

For a detailed account of the issues resolved (the tonne of bug fixes), please refer to:

  * [FlowplayerOASChangeLog Flowplayer Change Log]
  * [VASTAS3FrameworkChangeLog AS3 Framework Change Log]