#summary Streaming Explained
#sidebar TableOfContents

When delivering video content to a video player, the term "streaming" is often used. Many times this term has loaded meaning.

In short, video content can be delivered via:

  * HTTP "Progressive Download" which does not require any specific software over and above a standard web server (such as Apache or Lighttpd) to deliver the stream. HTTP streams that are downloaded via a standard web server in a "progressive" way do not allow the user to skip forward to a random part of the stream before the entire stream has been downloaded.

  * HTTP "Pseudo-Streaming" is "progressive download" with an extension that allows the user to access a random part of the stream before it's been downloaded. It does this via a server-side script that allows the player to tell the web server which part of the stream to access and download. Several technology options are available to add support for "pseudo-streaming" to a web server - two being [http://xmoov.com/xmoov-php/ XMoov] and the [http://h264.code-shop.com/trac H.264 Module for Lighttpd] 

  * "Streaming" in it's purest form requires specific software that implements a "streaming" protocol such as RTMP (as implemented by the Adobe Flash Media Server). You will find many Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) that offer this type of hosted service. We use [http://www.influxis.com Influxis] for our examples.

Video players will offer support for the different forms of streaming in different ways.

Flowplayer offers separate plugins to support the different streaming protocols. 

Longtail's JW Player alternatively has support already built in for many of them.

You can find more information on the different "streaming" definitions [http://www.longtailvideo.com/support/tutorials/HTTP-Video-Streaming here] and [http://flowplayer.org/plugins/streaming/rtmp.html here]